# Webiste Redesign for Enhanced Usability Experience using usability metrics.

Grocery Monk (“https://grocerymonk.com/”) is an E-commerce website that lets a user order aromatic spices, herbs, grocery and various other food items that are imported from India and get them deliver at your doorstep. There are many concerns in terms of usability and user experience for this website.

The homepage of the website lacks a proper interface for ordering items and creates confusion for first-time users. For e.g. the display screen after the homepage loads is just an image of grocery. The user has no idea at this point in time regarding what action needs to be done. This relates to a direct increase in the cognitive load since a user has to put in extra efforts than required. It takes time to get the hang of the website since it lacks familiarity with other similar websites. Lack of filters makes it difficult to filter/sort particular items thereby increasing the time for ordering these items. There is no dedicated section for Help/Support to address the customer’s issue. The UI across different web-pages is not consistent and hinders the overall smooth user experience. 

The main purpose of this project is to optimize the website in terms of usability and user experience. The aim is to redesign the website in a way that the display screen after the homepage loads should provide a sense of direction to the user. It should display the products under proper labels and categories. The redesigned prototype also aims to reduce the time for performing a task by giving the user an option of advanced sort and filters. The redesigned prototype will also have a consistent UI that would result in an overall improved shopping experience and thus a higher satisfaction rate. 

We will use the​time on task​usability metric to show that our implementation would result in an overal decrease of time for completing a given task. A​subjective​satisfaction score would be calculated using the survey provided to the users after they perform the task on our implemented prototype. A usability metric - the​level of task success​be used to calculate the efficiency of the user as they perform the tasks  on a redesigned prototype in comparison to the original design. 
